---
title: 1 Kings 18:19-21
author: Ken tevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-11T15:13:00Z
featured: true
description: 1 Kengs 18:19-21
tags:
  - 1 Kings
---

(1Ki 18:19)  Now therefore send and gather all Israel to me at Mount Carmel, and the 450 prophets of Baal 
and the 400 prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table.”

(1Ki 18:20)  So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.

(1Ki 18:21)  And Elijah came near to all the people and said, “How long will you go limping between 
two different opinions? If the LORD is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him.” And the people 
did not answer him a word.


(1Ki 18:36)  And at the time of the offering of the oblation, Elijah the prophet came near and said, 
“O LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, 
and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word.

(1Ki 18:39)  And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, 
“The LORD, he is God; the LORD, he is God.”


Elijah is quite instructive here. He began to prophesy in a time of immediate
crisis, one that would become far worse before it ever improved. There was
tremendous evil to overcome. His ministry took place about 150 years before
Israel was to fall, becoming the Lost Ten Tribes, so God was beginning to
make a powerful witness to them. Elijah's work was to reveal the true God to
Israel in a time of growing national crisis. Elijah prepared the way for
Elisha, who had a double portion of Elijah's spirit and did many more
miracles. In this regard, Elijah was a type of John the Baptist, and Elisha,
a type of Christ. God's pattern is being established. He sends someone long
before the real crisis reaches its peak, while it is building.

ELIjah says disturbing things. This is a prophet's job, a hallmark of a prophet
of God. People like to feel comfortable. The only trouble is that people
like to feel comfortable in moral mediocrity. They become "settled on their
lees," as it says in Zephaniah 1:12. The prophet comes along and troubles
people by awakening them to their sins, making them feel guilty about their
relationships with God and each other. He awakens them to their spiritual
and moral responsibilities. These Israelites were lethargic in terms of
true, spiritual matters.

When a person is freezing to death, he feels a pleasant numbness that he
does not want to end. He just goes to sleep as he is freezing to death. But
when heat is applied, and the blood begins rushing into the affected areas,
pain immediately occurs. Though it hurts, the pain is indicative of rescue
and cure. God sends a prophet to people who are cold in their relationship
with God—spiritually freezing to death—though they want to stay that way.
The prophet turns the heat on, and they become angry with him when he is
actually working to make them better. He is often accused of causing their
pain.

A prophet's life is not a happy situation. Perhaps the clearest example of
this is Jeremiah, who moaned and complained to God, "This is more difficult
than You ever told me it would be. You tricked me." He did not like the
position God put him in. He wanted people to like him, which is
understandable. Nevertheless, he was still faithful, and he did his job.
Yet, he was in trouble his whole life, from his teenage years on.

There are several ideas as to exactly what Elijah meant by "How long will
you falter between two opinions?" One idea is that he means, "How long are
you going to hop from branch to branch?"—like a bird in a tree. The bird
cannot make up its mind where it wants to settle down, so it just keeps
hopping around. Another idea is that it pictures a person shifting his
weight from one foot to the other, indicating a degree of lameness. A third
is that he is describing somebody teetering on a tightrope and trying to
maintain his balance. Whatever the case, there is no doubt about Elijah's
intent: "How long will you keep shifting from one opinion to the other?"
Their spiritual lethargy for the true God made them uncommitted. Their
commitment went one way, and then it went the other way.

Once Elijah began preaching, their conscience pricked them, and it
encouraged them to worship the true God. But their carnality and their fear
of men persuaded them to worship Baal, because they wanted to be friends
with their fellow Israelites. They were straddling the fence in a precarious
state of imbalance, attempting to combine the worship of God with the more
popular worship of Baal and Asherah. This is typical Israeliltish
syncretism, but it will not work.

At one point in A Stillness at Appomattox by Bruce Catton, he deals with
soldiers who left the service of their army—either the Confederate army or
the Union army. These soldiers would surrender themselves to the other side
to be given a bit of favor and put into prison. In exchange, they would
offer information about their unit. For a while, both sides—the Confederate
and the Union—accepted those turncoats and took their information. However,
before the war was over, both sides were summarily executing anybody who did
this because those traitors could not be trusted. Most of the information
they gave turned out to be wrong, to be lies. Most of them were just saving
themselves and making themselves comfortable in their situation. They were
not committed to the side that they were supposed to be on. Elijah was
dealing with the same thing here, albeit spiritually.

When Elijah preached his message, it put the people in a bind because they
knew their conscience was telling them that they had to commit themselves to
God or to Baal. It disturbed them. Only the individual could decide which
side he would be on, because Elijah made it clear, "God does not want you
the way you are. Either you are going to be committed to Him or not. If you
will not be committed to Him, you are going to die."

Baal, of course, could not talk to them, but if he could, he would probably
have said basically the same thing, so the people were in a very
uncomfortable situation. The lesson for us becomes clear, because Jesus says
the same thing (Matthew 6:24; 12:25). The Sovereign Creator is not a God who
allows His favor to be bought with crumbs. He is a loving Master who only is
to be obeyed and served—and only on His terms.

Elijah was sent by God, and he was fulfilling the responsibility of a
prophet, to prod the people to whom he was sent to their responsibilities.
He was to be an aid in getting them from their state of being merely
"churched" to that of being truly religious and servants of the Most High
God.

Some become discouraged with the church because we are always being told—to
some measure anyway—disturbing things about ourselves. But church is where
we come to have our minds stretched and measured against Christ's standard.
For one to keep on coming to services and leaving, like a theatergoer,
without his options, opinions, or decisions resolved but deferred, is an
erosion of character. "Whatever is not of faith is sin" (Romans 14:23).

The sum of what Elijah said is actually spiritually dangerous, due to the
fact that God is judging. Christ's purpose is to cure, not merely to
comfort, so pain will be often involved when dealing with a prophet.


