---
title: 1 Kings 3:5-10
pubDatetime: 2024-12-27T14:25:00Z
featured: true
tags:
    - 1 Kings
---

(1Ki 3:5)  At Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and
God said, “Ask what I shall give you.”

(1Ki 3:6)  And Solomon said, “You have shown great and steadfast love to
your servant David my father, because he walked before you in faithfulness,
in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart toward you. And you have kept
for him this great and steadfast love and have given him a son to sit on his
throne this day.

(1Ki 3:7)  And now, O LORD my God, you have made your servant king in
place of David my father, although I am but a little child. I do not
know how to go out or come in.

(1Ki 3:8)  And your servant is in the midst of your people whom you have
chosen, a great people, too many to be numbered or counted for
multitude.

(1Ki 3:9)  Give your servant therefore an understanding mind to govern
your people, that I may discern between good and evil, for who is able
to govern tihis your great people?”
    
(1Ki 3:10)  It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this.



Did anyone ever have such a good start as Solomon? Perhaps the outstanding
thing was his attitude when he asked this of God. Commentators feel that he
was somewhere around twenty years old when this occurred. His youthfulness
shows in what he felt about himself in relation to what had become his
responsibility. He says, "I am a little child. I do not know how to go out
or come in." In other words, "I don't know how to conduct the affairs of
office. I feel that I am not adequate to do the job that has been given to
me."

He began with such promise, and maybe most of all was that wonderful
attitude. It was childlike. He was humble, willing to listen, willing to be
admonished and commanded by God. This is why God responded as He did.

Jesus Christ said, "To whom much is given, from him much will be required."
Very few have ever been given as much as Solomon had. So, he is an excellent
study case of one who neglected his gifts in favor of something of lesser
value. The cause of his fall is here summarized in I Kings 11:1-10.

Solomon had very special evidence of God's love. There are four examples of
this:

    » He was chosen king contrary to the normal custom. He was hand-picked
    to do the job. Had the normal custom been followed, Adonijah would have
    been made king, but it fell to Solomon instead. Of course, God is the
    one who sets kings up and puts them down, and He chose Solomon to
    succeed David.

    » He was given a change of name. Just like Abram's name was changed to
    Abraham, Jacob's name was changed to Israel, and Saul's name was changed
    to Paul, people who went through unusual experiences sometimes receive a
    name change to reflect the change that had occurred in their lives.
    Solomon's name was "Jedidiah," which means "beloved of the LORD." His
    name was a special assignment to him—someone that God really smiled
    upon.

    » He received every benefit imaginable: understanding, wisdom, wealth,
    and power. Of course, the Bible indicates that these things flowed from
    God—for his benefit and the nation's.

    » Twice he was visited by God—for encouragement and admonishment.

In addition, he had clear evidence of God's power working directly for him.
Solomon was put on the throne in the face of the entrenched political power
of the day, represented by Adonijah and particularly Joab. When David died,
the most influential person in the nation was not a member of David's
immediate family. It was Joab. In the face of Joab's support of Adonijah,
however, Solomon still became king. Obviously, God manipulated things to put
him on the throne.

He was also granted unparalleled, unchallenged power and prestige as a king.
People came from all the nations to admire Solomon, his wisdom, his building
projects, and his wealth. All these visitors gave all the credit to Solomon.
In reality, the Bible shows that God's power was working on Solomon's behalf
to produce these things.

He was given success in all of his endeavors beyond what anyone could
normally expect. Whether it was in botany, biology, building projects, wine,
women, and song, Solomon hit the top of the charts in everything he did.

But Solomon also had a problem. He was distracted by his interest in women.
He was a great man, but he had feet of clay and succumbed to idolatry. Now,
this did not happen overnight but by degrees. He never openly renounced God,
but neither was he ever very devoted either.

It is reminiscent of II Thessalonians 2 and the man of sin. Apostasy is
taking place, and God says that He was going to allow delusion to come upon
people, a "blindness" to occur. A similar thing happened to Solomon. When we
add what is taught in II Thessalonians, we find that the blindness is, in
reality, self-imposed.

God did not make Solomon blind, and He will not make the people spoken of in
II Thessalonians 2 blind either. But, because of their behavior, neither
will He stop their progression towards it. It is not that the people utterly
refuse to accept truth—just as Solomon never renounced God. The problem is
that they do not love it!

The problem is one of dedication. What was Solomon dedicated to? He was not
dedicated to God for very long after his good beginning. He was dedicated to
his projects—to building Jerusalem, the Temple, his home, botanical
gardens—things that only expanded his overwhelming vanity.

He ignored the laws God gave for kings (Deuteronomy 17:14-20), and that was
sin. Unfortunately, unlike David, Solomon did not have the spiritual
resources to recover from what he did. David recovered when he sinned
because he had a relationship with God. Even though he sinned, he would
bounce back from it in repentance.

I Kings 11:4 says that Solomon "clung to" his wives. Normally, that would be
good. A man should cling or cleave to his wife. Solomon, though, cleaved to
the wrong women, and his attachment to them led him astray. As he tolerated
their worship of other gods right in his home, his resistance wore down, and
he became increasingly vulnerable. Before long, he was participating in the
worship of their gods. Once he was accustomed to it, it wore away his
loyalty as each compromise made the next step easier. His vanity deceived
him into feeling that his strength and resolve were so great that he would
not fall. But he did, and he paid a bitter price.

One of the deceptive aspects to what Solomon did is something that any of us
could fall prey to. It does not have to be foreign women or something like
an all-consuming hobby. Religion, however, especially entrapped him through
his wives.

Virtually every religion uses similar terminology. Every Christian sect uses
the terms "born again," "salvation," "saved," and "redemption." We could add
"justification," "mercy," "kindness," "forgiveness," and "grace." All
Western religions (and maybe now even some of these New Age religions) share
some of the same terminology, but the theology behind the terms is radically
different.

In Solomon's day, the religions of Ashtoreth, Molech, Baal, Chemosh, and the
other false gods used terminology very similar to what was being used in
Israel, but the theology was vastly different. This is what trapped Solomon.
Once a comfortable syncretism is accepted, God is gradually neglected and
idolatry is adopted. Thomas Jefferson is credited with saying, "The price of
liberty is eternal vigilance." This is just as true in regard to religion as
it is to civil liberty under a government.


