---
title: 1 Timothy 4:3.md
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-19T13:26:00Z
featured: true
tags:
  - 1 Tumothy
---

In I Timothy 4:2, Paul speaks of people searing or cauterizing their
consciences with a hot iron. Willard Gaylin writes that "the failure to feel
guilt is the basic flaw in the psychopath, or antisocial person, who is
capable of committing crimes of the vilest sort without remorse or
contrition." We could describe the unpardonable sin as the incapacity to
feel remorse or a person's determination to override every warning signal of
guilt. If people repeatedly violate their consciences, masking their guilt
by using escapist "analgesics," the consequences become devastating. Without
the stimulus of spiritual pain, they become incapable of changing their
behavior.

This seared conscience is the ultimate result of the process Paul describes
in Romans 1:28: "And even as they did not like to retain God in their
knowledge, God gave them over [abandoned them, Twentieth Century New
Testament] to a debased mind, to do those things which are not fitting."
Though God desires to grant all men repentance (II Peter 3:9), a person can
reach a point where it is no longer possible because, in his perversion and
wickedness, he has burned his conscience to cinders.

We need to thank God for the capacity to feel both physical and spiritual
pain. It provides us with the warning and the motivation to change—to be
transformed into the image of our Savior Jesus Christ. In accepting His
sacrifice for our sins, we take upon ourselves the responsibility—with God's
help—to diagnose and eradicate the sins that cause the spiritual pain in the
first place, to bring us into vibrant spiritual health. As the author of
Hebrews writes, "Now no chastening [painful discipline] seems to be joyful
for the present, but grievous; nevertheless, afterward it yields the
    peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it"
    (Hebrews 12:11).


