---
title: Amos 2:6-8
Author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-20T10:49:00Z
featured: true
tags:
  - Amos 
---

(Amo 2:6)  Thus says the LORD: “For three transgressions of Israel, and for
four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they sell the righteous for
silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals—

(Amo 2:7)  those who trample the head of the poor into the dust of the earth
and turn aside the way of the afflicted; a man and his father go in to the
same girl, so that my holy name is profaned;

(Amo 2:8)  they lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in
pledge, and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have
been fined.

The prophet Amos describes three major sins: the sins of covetousness (verse
6); indifference and oppression of the poor, the needy and the weak (verse
7); and unrestricted promotion of self-advantage (verse 8). These are the
effects of rejecting the Teacher, the Instructor.

As Israel's destruction neared, conditions worsened drastically. The courts
were totally corrupt with the judges in collusion with the lawyers, selling
their verdicts to the highest bidder! Amos says, "Therefore the prudent keep
silent at that time, for it is an evil time" (Amos 5:13). God advises that
the best thing to do was to remain silent and go on with one's life because
one could not get a good judgment from the judges! The best thing to do was
to settle out of court, if possible.

All the while this corruption ran rampant in Israel, people were worshipping
God in droves! A high percentage of the people attended services and kept
the festivals. They pilgrimaged to the centers of religion in Bethel,
Gilgal, and Beersheba where the people kept the feasts. The commentators
concede Israel may still have been keeping some of the holy days of God.

Notice what God says:

    I hate, I despise your feast days, and I do not savor your sacred
    assemblies. Though you offer Me burnt offerings [worship] and your grain
    offerings, I will not accept them, nor will I regard your fattened peace
    offerings. Take away from Me the noise of your songs, for I will not
    hear the melody of your stringed instruments. (Amos 5:21-23)

God hated their feasts, their offerings, and their singing in His name. The
wording indicates nausea! Compare this to Revelation 3:16.

Most likely Israel blended the worship of the true God with the worship of
Baal and Ashtoreth and other local deities. Despite their worship, this
syncretism caused a separation from God. They were at odds with Him, even
though, in their minds, they worshipped Him. Society immediately degenerated
because the people's love waxed cold. Their worship produced no good effect
because it came from an unrighteous source.

When one studies the New Testament, the pattern unfortunately continues. The
history of the true church has been one of waxing and waning purity as well.
Generally, brief periods of unity and growth precede longer periods of
disunity and stagnation. Small, scattered congregations barely hold
themselves together during these times and do no active work.

The pattern is very similar to that established in ancient Israel. God would
raise up a man, and he would lead a Work and establish what would be
orthodox. As time went by, two groups would emerge. One group would be more
conservative, disposed to maintain orthodox doctrine and to hold on to their
traditions. The other element would be broader-minded, not bound by orthodox
or traditional forms.

The appearance of these two groups presents a Christian with a complex
question: "I see it, but what do I do?" Christ answers: "Beware of false
prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are
ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits" (Matthew 7:15-16).

Such fruit as an increase in marital and relationship problems, uncertain
judgment regarding what is right and wrong, a lack of discussion of God and
His Word, indifference toward prayer and Bible study, relaxation toward
making an effective and powerful work, and similar attitudes are ones of
which to be wary. In such an atmosphere, if a Christian is not careful, he
can take on the enveloping and smothering attitude that invariably arises,
which will eventually snuff out his spiritual life.


