---
title: Galations 5:22
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-23T09:33:00Z
featured: true
tags:
  - Galations 
---

l 5:22)  But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience,
kindness, goodness, faithfulness,

Good is a very versatile word with many uses in everyday English. It is used
as a noun, adjective, and adverb and is the root of the word "goodness." The
common idea in almost all of its uses is that it suggests a desirable
quality, something commendable, reliable, welcome, enjoyable, beneficent,
kind, noble, admirable, propitious, exemplary, and very much welcome. In the
word "goodness," the inner qualities of virtue, excellence of character,
morality, and attitude that we see in a person's behavior come to the fore.

The Hebrew and Greek uses are similar, but the Hebrew, like the English, has
a broader application. The Greek word, agathosune, at first glance seems
very similar to chrestotes ("kindness"). However, closer examination of its
use in the Scriptures reveals a word indicating zealous activity in doing
good. Kindness or gentleness (chrestotes) is more passive.

William Barclay's Daily Study Bible commentary on Galatians says of these
two words:

    It [agathosune] is the widest word for goodness; it is defined as
    "virtue equipped at every point." What is the difference? Agathosune
    might, and could, rebuke and discipline; chrestotes can only help.
    Trench says that Jesus showed agathosune when He cleansed the Temple and
    drove out those who were making it a bazaar; but He showed chrestotes
    when He was kind to the sinning woman who anointed His feet. The
    Christian needs that goodness which at the same time can be kind and
    strong. (p. 51)

Agathosune is therefore active—even aggressive—goodness. The English word
"goodness" includes many pleasing qualities whereas the Greek word indicates
one particular quality. It is more than an excellence of character; it is
character energized, expressing itself in active good. Agathosune is
goodness, but it does not spare sharpness and rebuke to produce good in
others. Thus God can correct, sometimes very severely, and it is goodness in
action. Thus parents can correct their child, and it is good because it
helps produce a responsible adult.


