---
title: Genesis 3:16
author: Ken Stevens
description: Genesis 3:16
pubDatetime: 2024-12-19T12:50:00Z
featured: true
tags:
    - Genesis
---

(Gen 3:16)  To the woman he said, “I will surely multiply your pain in
childbearing; in pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be
contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you.”

The first curse includes the whole processes of childbearing, from
conception to birth. The Hebrew word rendered "conception" in the New King
James version (NKJV) includes the entire pregnancy, while "bring forth" can
mean both the beginning or end of the birth process. The Revised Standard
Version translates these clauses as, "I will greatly multiply your pain in
childbearing; in pain you shall bring forth children."

A human female is unique among mammalian creatures in this respect. Animal
females generally bear their young without pain and rarely sicken and die
during or from the experience. Women, on the other hand, always experience
pain and grief throughout their pregnancies—from morning sickness to
contractions—and have historically had a very high mortality rate from
childbirth. Better nutrition and hygiene have cut the numbers of deaths
dramatically, but the pain and grief remain.

Fortunately, God is a God of mercy. He put within the human female the
ability to "forget" her pains in childbirth soon thereafter. Jesus Himself
mentions this in John 16:21:

    A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come; but
    as soon as she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the
    anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world.

This curse on Eve has a direct relationship with the end of the curse on the
serpent, which involves the woman's "seed," both general and specific
(Genesis 3:15). We can infer that God intends us to understand that, because
of sin, producing "seed" to fight Satan and his seed will be made more
difficult. In a spiritual sense, the church, "the mother of us all," endures
great hardship in producing children of God.

Thus, the Bible testifies, "the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the
violent take it by force" (Matthew 11:12), "We must through many
tribulations enter the kingdom of God" (Acts 14:22), and "all who desire to
live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution" (II Timothy 3:12). Even
the sinless Christ, the promised Seed, was "a Man of sorrows and acquainted
with grief" (Isaiah 53:3), forced by sin—yet willing—to bear the agonies of
human life and death to become the Son of God, the Firstborn among many
brethren.


