---
title: Genesis 35:1-3.md
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-24T13:42:00Z 
featured: true
tags:
  - Genesis 
---

(Gen 35:1)  God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. Make
an altar there to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your
brother Esau.”

(Gen 35:2)  So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him,
“Put away the foreign gods that are among you and purify yourselves and
change your garments.

(Gen 35:3)  Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may make there
an altar to the God who answers me in the day of my distress and has been
with me wherever I have gone.”

In Genesis 28:20-22, Jacob made a vow that, if God would be with him, he
would return to Bethel. Instead, however, after leaving Laban, he stops
first at Succoth for a time, then settles in Shechem, fifteen miles short of
Bethel. Perhaps he does not feel ready to go to Bethel, which means "House
of God," because some of his family still hold to their pagan gods. Perhaps
he feels that he knows best, and Shechem is a better spot (Bethel is about a
thousand feet higher in elevation than Shechem).

God allows him this latitude, but in the Rape of Dinah and the subsequent
murders (found in Genesis 34), it is obvious that God wants him to honor his
promise to return to Bethel.

In Genesis 34:30, we see something else about Jacob:

    Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, "You have troubled me by making me
    obnoxious among the inhabitants of the land, . . . and since I am few in
    number, they will gather themselves together against me and kill me. I
    shall be destroyed, my household and I." (Emphasis ours)

This verse does not put Jacob in the best light! He appears to have been
just a bit self-centered. At this point in the story, he was not thinking in
terms of Dinah's best interests, only of his own.

It seems that Jacob failed Dinah in several ways. He put her outside Shechem
where she should have never been. He allowed continuing worship of pagan
gods in his home. He was concerned more with his personal honor and image
than that of his daughter. Moreover, he left it to his sons to deal with
this tragedy rather than taking a leadership role.


