--- 
title: Job 11:7
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-18T09:34:00Z
description: Job 11:7
featured: true
tags:
  - Job
---

(Job 11:7)  “Can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the
limit of the Almighty?


Throughout the book of Job, we hear his continuous, bitter complaints, which
expose a heart of pride and spirit of self-satisfaction. We also observe the
misguided accusations of each of Job's friends and their utter ignorance of
God and His almighty power and unfathomable wisdom.

When Zophar spoke these words to Job, we discover that He was under the
false impression that he had access to the deep things of God and that he
knew all there was to know of God, giving him free rein to accuse his
friend. He also thought that Job possessed none of these spiritual
qualities. But Zophar's spiritual pride, his ill-founded accusations against
his friend, and Job's own bitter complaints, demonstrated that both men were
ignorance of God's ways and God's righteousness which is beyond man's
comprehension.

Sadly, today there is much criticism of Christians by other believers, many
of whom seem to consider that they have an exclusive knowledge of God, a
unique revelation from Him, and that they alone hold the key to
understanding the deep things of God.

But what God requires of all His children is that we trust Him fully, walk
humbly before Him, depend entirely upon Him, and willingly submit to His
leading and guiding, even when we do not understand the reason for the
difficulties that surround us or the circumstances that seem destined to
overwhelm our soul: "For who can fathom the deep things of God or measure
the limits of His power."



