---
title: Luke 10:26-28
author: Ken StevenS
pubDatetime: 2024-12-09T10:22:00Z
description: Luke 10:26-28
featured: true
tags:
	- Luke
---

(Luk 10:26)  He said to him, “What is written in the Law? How do you read it?”

(Luk 10:27)  And he answered, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your 
heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind, 
and your neighbor as yourself.”

(Luk 10:28)  And he said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this, and 
you will live.”


1. Verses give us a formula for entrering the Kingdom of God.
  a. It is just that simple, or is it?
2. Love our God more than anything else.
3. Nothing is to take precedence over Him.
  a. not our desires
  b. our will
  c. anything else.
4. God is aleays first.
5. Love God with all of our soul
6. We are to be ready to give up our lives to honor God.
7. To endure all types of ridiule and torment for His saje.
8. This is all part of loving God.
9. It is our loving God with all our strength.
10. Whatever we possess has come from God.
11. physically serve God or give our substance as living sacrifice
12. This too is just part of loving God with all our strenth.
13. Adam Clarke
14. In a word, he [one thinking with and using the mind of Christ] sees God 
    in all things; thinks of Him at all times; has his mind continually fixed 
    upon God; acknowledges Him in all his ways. He begins, continues, and ends 
    all his thoughts, words and works, to the glory of His name. This is the 
    person who loves God with all of his heart, his might, and strength and his 
    intellect. 
15. It is exactly what God wants from us.
16. Do unto others as as we would as we would have them do ungo us.
17. Loving our neighbors as ourselves. It is self explanatory.
18. If we are in trouble
  a. Do we want someoneto come to help us.
  b. Do we want someone to listen  to us when we need someine's earr.
  c. Do we want someone to rescue us when er find oursrlve im financial difficulties.
19. We should be concerned for others, as we are concerned for ourselves. 

