---
title: Matthew 19:23-26
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2924-12-20T10:23:00Z
featured: true
tags:
  - Matthew
---

(Mat 19:23)  And Jesus said to his disciples, “Truly, I say to you, only
with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven.

(Mat 19:24)  Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the
eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.”

(Mat 19:25)  When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished,
saying, “Who then can be saved?”

(Mat 19:26)  But Jesus looked at them and said, “With man this is
impossible, but with God all things are possible.”

This proverb has always been intriguing. Years ago, a friend related a story
of a gate in the wall around ancient Jerusalem called the "Eye of the
Needle," or the "Needle's Eye." This gate was designed in such a way that it
could be used by pedestrians but not by marauding bandits on their camels.
The only way a camel could get through this "Eye of the Needle" was to be
unloaded and crawl through on its knees. This great story—and several
variations of it—have made the rounds over the years.

The spiritual analogies were clear. The camel could go through the "Eye of
the Needle," but only after being stripped of its baggage—its wealth!

The only problem with this story is that it is not true! There is absolutely
no archaeological or historical evidence for the existence of such a gate.
The story was first told several centuries ago and has been repeated ever
since. It is yet another example of people trying to make Christ's words fit
their own concepts of what He meant.

Jesus clearly says that it would be easier for a camel to go through the eye
of a needle. Can this be done? Of course not! That is the point! Yet, people
have tried in vain to make it happen. Some have suggested that there is a
misprint in the Greek. The Greek word kamelos, meaning "camel"should really
be kamilos, meaning "cable" or "rope." Still, passing a rope through a
needle's eye is nevertheless impossible. Ah, but what if one uses a six-inch
carpet needle, and the rope is actually made of camel's hair? Others have
suggested that this was an Aramaic pun on the word for a camel and that of a
gnat or louse, from the Aramaic kalma meaning "vermin" or "louse." It can
become quite ridiculous.

All this maneuvering is unnecessary. Christ was using hyperbole, just as He
did when He spoke of a plank being in one's eye while attempting to remove
the splinter in a brother's eye (Matthew 7:3-4). Everyone seems to
understand that this is exaggeration for effect; commentators do not claim,
"Well, He really meant a toothpick, not a 2 x 4." In our own speech, we use
hyperbole all the time, such as, "This book weighs a ton," or "I'm so hungry
I could eat a horse."

Jesus' hyperbole in Matthew 19:24 is easily explained. The camel was the
largest animal regularly seen in Israel, and its contrast with the small
size of a needle's eye shows the utter impossibility of the effort to
squeeze the former through the latter. In Babylon, where portions of the
Jewish Talmud were written, since the elephant was the largest animal, it
was substituted for "camel" in this common aphorism.

Why do so many want to act as apologists for what Christ "really" meant in
Matthew 19? Is it because we secretly—or even openly—desire wealth and do
not want any biblical negativity slowing us down? Just in case we inherit
big bucks from the uncle we forgot we had, we would not want any spiritual
stigma attached to the money! To reiterate, the wealth itself is not the
problem, but our attachment to it or what it can buy.

Jesus' disciples were horrified at His words. "Who then can be saved?" they
wondered. It is very simple. Christ is instructing them that, through his
own efforts, no one can be saved. He does not mean just the wealthy cannot
be saved, but no one can be saved through his money, his skills, his
talents, his intellect, or his good looks!

During the time of Christ, the Jews believed that wealth and prosperity were
a sign of God's blessing, so the reaction of His disciples is sheer
incredulity. Later, professing Christians fell into the opposite ditch by
portraying riches as a hindrance to salvation—which they can be—but so can
many other things.

What if we are considered to be poor by this world? Are we somehow better
than those with more physical goods? It would be just as dangerous for an
underprivileged person to think that he had it made—that his poverty gave
him some sort of piety—as it would for a rich man to trust in his wealth. We
can be tempted from the path of righteousness by just about anything. Our
downfall might be drink, food, television, or any number of things available
to us in this world.

It is easy for us to look at the wealthy and judge them to be unfit for
God's Kingdom, congratulating ourselves in the process for not having that
particular distraction in our lives. While the rich young ruler walked away
from Christ, extremely sad that he could not make that leap of faith, what
in our own lives has the same hold on us? What is the anchor that keeps our
spiritual ship from sailing?

In II Timothy 4:10, Paul writes, "Demas has forsaken me, having loved this
present world." What caused Demas to leave Paul and Christ? Demas loved the
world; the particulars are not divulged. Whatever it was is of less import
than the simple, spiritual fact that a camel cannot go through the eye of a
needle. Someone who loves the world, whether rich or poor, will not be in
God's Kingdom (James 4:4; I John 2:15-17).

The point is that we do not achieve salvation through our own efforts; it is
from God alone, by His grace. "With men this is impossible, but with God all
things are possible," Jesus assures us. We have our part to play and are
rewarded for our efforts, as Romans 2 explains, but when God takes us from
this world, works with us, blesses us, and brings us into His Family, it is
truly a miracle.


