---
title: Matthew 14:27
author: Ken Stevens
pubDatetime: 2024-12-20T09:55:00Z
featured: true
tags: 
  - Matthew
  - Maek
  - John
---

(Mat 14:27)  But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid.”

(Mar 6:50)  for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, 
“Take heart; it is I. Do not be afraid"

(Joh 6:20)  But he said to them, “It is I; do not be afraid.”


The three words, "It is I," are in Greek only two words (ego eimi), and they
are much more powerful and significant than most Bible readers realize.
Jesus says not, "It is I" but "I am," which is a direct assertion of His
deity. Moses had asked God:

    "Indeed, when I come to the children of Israel and say to them, 'The God
    of your fathers has sent me to you,' and they say to me, 'What is His
    name?' what shall I say to them?" And God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I
    AM." And He said, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, 'I AM
    n the Garden of Gethsemane the night before the crucifixion, the "I AM"
    lesson was made unambiguous. When soldiers came to arrest Christ,has sent me to you.'" (Exodus 3:13-14).

Clearly, Jesus is declaring that He is the Yahweh of the Old Testament.
Throughout the New Testament, there are a number of significant
amplifications of this: Christ is the "I AM" that is the bread of life; the
light of the world; the good shepherd; the resurrection; the way, the truth,
and the life; and the Alpha and Omega, among other things (John 6:35; 8:12;
10:11; 11:25; 14:6; Revelation 1:8).

In the Garden of Gethsemane the night before the crucifixion, the "I AM"
lesson was made unambiguous. When soldiers came to arrest Christ,

    He went forward and said to them, "Whom are you seeking?" They answered
    Him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am He" ["He" has been
    inserted by the translators]. And Judas, who betrayed Him, also stood
    with them. Now when He said to them, "I am He," they drew back and fell
    to the ground. (John 18:4-6)
    
The disciples in their peril at sea needed the great "I AM." These two words
alone should have removed all their fear.

In this incident, the disciples show that they were growing in faith. In the
earlier miracle of Christ stilling the storm on the sea, they asked, "Who
can this be, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?" (Matthew 8:27). Now
they have advanced in their knowledge to recognizing Jesus as God (as "Son
of God" indicates) and worshipping Him.

Recognizing that Jesus is God means that their worship was correct
doctrinally. True worship cannot be separate from true doctrine. Jesus says
to the woman at the well, "You worship what you do not know" (John 4:22). He
could say this to some even in the greater churches of God today who sadly
do not know enough about the Father and Christ. We, too, must know Him as
the Son of God and fully divine to worship Him acceptably.


